## ATS2

### ATS/Postiats

The name for the current compiler of ATS2, the successor of ATS (or ATS1).

The actual implementation of ATS/Postiats started in the March of 2011, and
it took about two and one-half years to reach the first release of ATS2 at
the beginning of September, 2013. As of now, the code base for the compiler
of ATS2 consists of 150,000+ lines of code (LOC), which are nearly all
written in ATS1.

When compared to ATS1, the single most important new feature is the template
system of ATS2. This is a feature that could potentially change the way a
programmer writes his or her code. One can certainly feel that this is a
very powerful feature (a bit like feeling that OOP is a very powerful
feature). However, how this feature should be properly and effectively used
in practice needs a lot more investigation.

Another thing about ATS2 is that it is a lot leaner than ATS. One can make
good use of ATS2 without any need for compiled library (libatslib.a). Also,
GC support in ATS1 is now removed; if needed, third-party GC (e.g.,
Bohem-GC) can be readily employed.

## ATS1

### ATS/Anairiats

The first implementation written in ATS itself, consisting of nearly 100,000
lines of source code. When compared to ATS/Geizella, a previous
implementation of ATS, ATS/Anairiats is significantly more efficient, and in
general it issues more informative messages for identifying program errors.

Bootstrapping via gcc In order to bootstrap ATS/Anairiats, one needs to
first check out the following svn directory and name it as some local
directory, say, "FOO":

`svn co https://ats-lang.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/ats-lang/trunk FOO`
Note that this checkout puts the C code needed for bootstrapping in a
directory of the name `FOO/bootstrap0`.  Please go into the directory "FOO"
and then execute 'make all'.

Bootstrapping via ocaml It is also possible to use the ATS/Geizella compiler
(written in OCaml) for bootstrapping ATS/Anairiats. This can be done by
checking out the following svn directory and name it as the local directory
`FOO/bootstrap0`:

```
svn co https://ats-lang.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/ats-lang/bootstrap/geizella \
  FOO/bootstrap0
```

After this is done, please go into the directory `FOO` and then execute
`make all-geizella`.

### ATS/Geizella

A previously released implementation of ATS (written in OCaml and C). In
this implementation, the native unboxed data representation (as is in C) is
adopted, and this makes ATS/Geizella particularly well suited for direct
interaction with C. As for parametric polymorphism, it is supported in
ATS/Geizella through the use of templates. ATS/Geizella is now largely out
of active use as ATS/Anairiats, a compiler for ATS that is almost entirely
written in ATS, has been bootstrapped successfully (with the help of
ATS/Geizella).

### ATS/Proto

The first implementation of ATS. In this implementation, the standard boxed
data representation is used to support parametric polymorphism. As of now,
ATS/Proto is no longer actively maintained and its main purpose is to serve
as an example for future reference.

## Predecessors

* [Xanadu](http://www.cs.bu.edu/~hwxi/Xanadu/Xanadu.html); mainly for
  dependent types with imperative style.
* [Dependent ML](http://www.cs.bu.edu/~hwxi/DML/DML.html); mainly for
  dependent types with functional style.

## Influential languages * [Standard
ML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_ML); mainly the syntax.  *
[C](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C_(programming_language)); mainly the
semantics.
