## Considerations for editing the wiki * Checking recent edits is a good way
to make sure the wiki remains as correct as possible, as well as a good way
to learn new things from other users. The wiki doesn't support diff view
currently, but a regularly updated repository with diff view is maintained
at https://github.com/bbarker/ATS-Postiats-wiki.  * If you change the name
of the page, either: **(1)** `git pull` the wiki and do a `grep` to see
which pages reference the page name you are changing, and then make the
appropriate changes; the wiki software currently will not automatically
update references. Alternatively **(2)**, create a link from the old page
name to the new page name. For instance, the old page might have only "See
[new page name].", where [new page name] is a link to the new page.

## General TODO * Consider improving the [[wiki homepage|home]] to be more
beginner-friendly and easy on the eyes, e.g. https://wiki.python.org/moin/

## Stubs (practically no content)  * [[Rosetta Stone|Rosetta Stone]]


## Incomplete (Of course, it is hard to say what is complete, but here we
mean listings that are highly incomplete or articles that only barely
scratch the surface.)  * [[char|char]] * [[code generation|code generation]]
* [[features|features]] * [[keywords|keywords]] * [[loops|loops]] *
[[safety|safety]] * [[Scientific Computing|Scientific Computing]] *
[[sort|sort]] * [[template|template]]


## Needs Expert Review (Authors are not confident in some important
statements being made.  Also note that you do not have to know everything
about a topic to possibly make improvements listed here.)  * [[char|char]] *
[[sort|sort]] * [[type|type]]

## Mostly ATS1 (Needs to be updated to ATS2)  * [[Contributed
Libraries|Contributed Libraries]] * [[loops|loops]]


